**Intro:-Target audience**
* Undergraducate students
* Preparing for GATE
* Preparing for networking interview
* Prerequisite to CCNA international certificaiton course
* Demystify networking technologies and jargans.
  **Pedagogy**
  1)Lecture
  2)Problem solving
  3)simulation using cisco packet tracer
  **Syllabus**
  *fundamentals
  *Data link layer
  *Network layer
  *Transport layer
  *Application layer
  *Network security
  *Definition -computer network*
  A computer network is a set of nodes conneted by communication links.
  A node can be a computer ,printer or any other device capable of sending/receiving data generated by other nodes in the network.e.g computer ,server,printer,security camera , many more (swithces,bridges,routers,etc).
  * A communication link can be a wired link or wireless link.
  * The link carries the information.
  **basic characteristics of computer network**
    -fault tolerance 
    -scalability 
    -quality of service(Qos) 
    -security
    #### fault tolerance ####
    The ablily to:
    1)continue working despite failures
    2)Ensure no loss of service
    Scalability: 
    he ability to:1)Grow based on the needs.
    have good performance after growth.
    Quality of service (Qos)
    the ability to:
    1)set priorities
    2)manage data traffic to reduce data loss,delay etc.
    **security**
    the ability to prevent:
    *unauthorized access
    *misuse
    *forgery
    The ability to provide
    *confidentially
    *integrity]
    *availability
    ************ *********
    
    
    
    
     
  
  
  


  
  
  
  



